---
title: Connector Definitions
summary: Common terms related to wiring, connectors, and wiring harnesses.
authors: Jon Harper
date: 2022-12-05
---

<!--
#### Template
:   Definition

    **[Source][link]**

    <discussion>
-->
### derate (cable)

:   > Cable derating ensures all factors which can increase the temperature experienced by the installation is properly accounted for when selecting cables to prevent damage to the cable insulation and reduce system losses. The derating factor is applied to reduce the cable’s current carrying capacity.
    >
    > [...] As current passes through the cable, heat is produced as a result of the electrical resistance of the wire. Multiple circuits running in close proximity can further increase the temperature of the conductors as a result of electromagnetic effects and physical proximity effects. When cables are arranged close to each other, cables have limited ability to dissipate heat and reach a hotter operating temperature.

    [:material-information-outline: Source & Further Reading][def_derate]{ .jh-source }

    Like cables, connectors are also subject to derating. Connectors with a low maximum operating temperature can melt or catch fire when high ambient temperatures and the temperature rise of operation combine to damage or destroy the connector housing.

### connector
:   > A component that translates the wires of a cable or traces on a PCB into a fixed organized layout of pins that can be affixed to another connector of the same style. A device for mating and demating electrical power connections or communications media.

    [:material-information-outline: Source][def_connector]{ .jh-source }

    A connector terminates the end of a cable or board and enables electrical connections to be artibrarily attached or removed with a mating connector. Broadly speaking, a connector is a terminal with a housing to protect it.

    !!! compare "Compare: [*terminal*](#terminal)"

### terminal
:   > An electrical connection. That part of the component package used in making an electrical, mechanical, or thermal connection. Examples of terminals are flexible leads, rigid leads, studs, and cases which serve as electrical connections.

    [:material-information-outline: Source][def_terminal]{ .jh-source }

    When discussing pin and socket connectors, the pin is the terminal. The pin and housing together make a connector.

    !!! compare "Compare: *[connector](#connector)*"

### electro-magnetic interference (EMI)

:   > Electromagnetic interference (EMI), also called radio-frequency interference (RFI) when in the radio frequency spectrum, is a disturbance generated by an external source that affects an electrical circuit by electromagnetic induction, electrostatic coupling, or conduction. The disturbance may degrade the performance of the circuit or even stop it from functioning. In the case of a data path, these effects can range from an increase in error rate to a total loss of the data.

    [:material-information-outline: Source & Further Reading][def_emi]{ .jh-source }



